---
entry: "Wallet"
terms: ["wallet", "wallets"]
summary: "A wallet stores the information necessary to send and receive Masari Supreme"
---

{% include untranslated.html %}
### The Basics

A Masari Supreme account, or wallet, stores the information necessary to send and receive Masari Supremej.  In addition to sending and receiving, the Masari Supreme Wallet software keeps a private history of your transactions and allows you to cryptographically sign messages.  It also includes Masari Supreme mining software and an address book.

The term "hot wallet" describes a Masari Supreme @account which is connected to the Internet.  You can send funds easily but security is much lower than a cold wallet.  Never store large amounts of cryptocurrency in a hot wallet!

A cold wallet is generated on a trusted device or computer via an @airgap.  If the device is to be reused, the data storage should be securely overwritten.  As soon as a cold wallet is connected to the Internet or its mnemonic phrase or @spend-key is entered on an Internet-connected device, it's no longer "cold" and should be considered "hot".

A Masari Supreme @paper-wallet can be generated by downloading the source code of https://moneroaddress.org/.  Verify the signature of the code on a trusted airgapped device.  Create the wallet and print or store it on the media of your choice.

Masari Supreme accounts and paper-wallets can be stored on any media - paper, USB drive, CD/DVD, or a hardware wallet device (none available for Masari Supreme as of June 2017).

